This will be the final segment,
hopefully wrap up pretty quick here.
But this will be kind of questions and
answers and so if you have some final
questions or whatever,
just get them down and get them ready.
But I'm gonna do a quick rapid fire of
some like common internet [LAUGH] people
questions that I get that might be helpful
or head off some questions you have.
React, we kind of talked about
short answer is yes, right?
So there's two things this Lit
labs has the React wrapper,
so you just consume it into your
web component your lip project.
And you can do that but
also react 19 very promising or
the experimental branch of React that we
think will be react 19 looks promising.
And so it may be a great time to
start looking at web components
if you wanna know how big distribution and
react accessible,
this is a question that comes up a lot,
obviously it's important.
The short answer is yes, web components
are accessible as you write them, right?
Like, it's easy to write
inaccessible code but
there are a few tough spots in regards
to labeling and focus behavior.
If you can think of it,
like you have my input element,
custom my input element, and
you have a label outside of that.
But how do you associate
the label with the shadow thing?
So there's there's a few talks and
sort of like that
delegates focus attribute
where if you click the label
a delegate the focus into the element,
the input element.
But the issue is kind of with labeling
is how do you delegate a label or
something like that.
So there's some specifications
happening within
the AOM accessibility object manager.
But then through the open or
sorry the web component community group
there's some work happening
there it seems promising.
But just know that if you have a label
outside of the input like a custom
input element you maybe have
a problem there you have to yeah,
you're going to have test it.
Make sure you figure that out that stuff's
hard labeling and associated with hard,
but then seem sort of thing with focus
if you pop, open a dialogue and you go.
Go into emoji picker,
there's one an emoji picker, right?
So if you open an emoji picker and you
start driving around the emoji picker and
you hit escape,
how does the Shadow DOM know to go put
the focus back on the thing
that was last focus?
Cuz it has no knowledge of
the stuff outside of it,
so that can be tricky and you sort of
need to like either mute an event or
something to like restore the focus or
to the previously active element.
There's also a new inert
attribute in HTML.
I don't know if you've seen it,
but it's basically says take
all this stuff and
pull it from the accessibility tree.
And so you could see like a place
like a dialog or something like that.
You have your app up here
in your dialogue down here.
And you just say make the whole app in
NERT while the dialogue is happening.
And now make the destroy the dialogue,
and then make this uninjured,
and then in theory, the focus should
go back to where it was previously.
Again, that stuff is hard in normal HTML,
in JavaScript,
and it doesn't get super easier in,
web component land.
So, that's all traversing shadow down,
etc.
IE11 short answer, yes,
there's a poly fill maintained by Google.
So, it should be good,
but I would maybe say,
think about the progressive enhancement
quality superpowers of web components.
Maybe you don't need a polyfill.
Maybe the LightDOMs enough to
provide a suitable fallback for IE,
which just won't even
render a custom element.
Another thing you might consider
is support for internet explorer.
It ends on June 15 2022.
And that's usually the time when
enterprise companies that are employing ie
11 and stuff like that.
They usually mass switch their entire
company over because they're out of
some support cycle.
Who knows what's going to happen?
But I would posit .I would say
,if you're starting a project
today ,are you going to finish
by June 15 ?And if you're not
going to finish by June 15 of this year,
[LAUGH].
Then maybe you don't
need to worry about it.
So I think most people are not
worrying about it at this point so.
Reactive contexts we talked about that
yes, but it's sort of BYO for now.
Frameworks are gonna try to help you here.
And then, there is this context
API kinda being discussed in
the Web Components community
group SEO is a good question
there's actually a really nice
post link to the guide book notes.
But there's two posts Googlebot
itself Search Engine Land or
whatever search engine hub or
whatever on Google says Googlebot can
flatten Shadow DOM and light DOM together.
So a plus it's not clear if that happens
on the first pass or the second pass that
that the like, typically the like
HTML pass and the JavaScript pass.
It's not clear which it happens on but
it can do that.
And then there's another post that sort
of like went through like being and
DuckDuckGo to see sort of how they index
web components is kind of a big test.
And it seems pretty positive I think
being missed it in a few places so
it might you may need to if beings a big
audience then maybe it's important but
I think this all get better as the crawler
lawyers and everything get better.
SSR this is a good question.
Server side rendering,
like how do you do that right?
We've been doing kind of everything
in JavaScript in the client.
That's a big deal.
Well, there's a new feature called
declarative Shadow DOM, and
I'll show it to you right here.
This is a web component.
This is my Bill Murray alert.
But I have no JavaScript.
But I have written a web component.
And the magic that's happening here
is this template shadowroot open.
So if you put a template inside
your alert, the browser.
So chrome specifically the browser will
say okay I know what to do with that
I'm just going to try to
render that on a pass.
And then when your component
actually comes through later and
upgrades it to be like fully interactive
It'll actually tear down that old
template and put in a new template or
just upgrade your current template.
However you have it.
So that's cool.
I think like, what I learned was,
this might be another great way
to provide kind of skeleton
content to provide some content.
What I don't like about it
if I'm completely honest is,
if I'm just writing the whole
template inside of here.
Maybe I should just use PHP just
to get the server rendered.
That's a totally valid opinion in my
opinion, because it's my opinion.
And but the I think we're all using
some kind of preprocessor of some sort,
whether it's a static site generator or
something.
So maybe there's a way that you
can do that efficiently and not,
you don't have HTML in one place.
And script in other place or maybe there's
eventually a tool that will be able to,
recognize your template and
then kind of automatically
Pre parse that sort of stuff.
So I'm sure all that stuff
is kind of in the works.
But declarative Shadow DOM can do like
very server side rendering that will
reduce your paint times and
stuff like that.
Okay, any questions before I
wrap it all up or chat as well?
If you have questions, yes.
>> Do you have any guidance or
Beck's best practices for focus locking?
Finding all focus will elements are
including elements within the Shadow DOM.
>> Okay, how do you find focus
level elements in the Shadow DOM?
So that delegates focus will find
the first focus scible element.
I'm not 100% clear on what rules
it does to determine that,
but it's probably like inputs and
then tab indexes and stuff like that.
There's probably an order
of operations that tries
to fetch those and
then tips for managing focus.
Was that the question mark it was tips for
focus locking focus locki yeah,
so if you had this custom element and
pop up thing pop up.
How do you trap the focus inside of it.
I would honestly right now look at that
inert attribute in the inert polyfill.
And basically you insert everything else
and then that little chunk of content
becomes the only thing the cursor
can kind of move around on.
And then you destroy this and
unaired that and
then you're back to where you want to be.
So that would be my like,
look into the inert attribute.
It's being implemented, I think in Chrome,
Safari and all kinds of things.
So and then there's a pretty
good polyfill for it.
And so, one more question.
Here we go.
>> How do you think about CSS property
naming and usage in the context of web
components, such as, prefixing variable
names on a per component basis or
defining them in a host versus
defining them on route.
>> Right, okay cool yeah so
how do you to like CSS custom
properties if we're going to use that,
I like the namespace,
like your variables have the same
name as your element like namespace.
So you like that shadow scroller
was like shadow scroller.
What was it, strength or something?
So, how the radius.
I like that because it's very specific and
I know it's there's not
gonna be a side effect.
There's a chance if you name something
at the top of your document, and
then this custom element is looking for
the BG.
Attribute, there might be a conflict,
cuz you set it up here, but
you did not want it to go
in the custom element.
Easy enough to redefine it because
that's how CSS variables work.
You can define something up here and
then you can redefine it down here with
no problems to the rest of the page.
That's kind of the nature of the cascade.
So there's less Less massive fallout
than like changing a SASS variable or
something.
But, in where should you apply it,
at the root or host,
I think it does not matter.
I think people started using
route colon route too further see
their CSS variables just.
Because I think some example used it
doesn't have to be there it can be a body
it can be on HTML we just for some reason
route please everyone just gravitated.
We should just do that and that's,
I don't know, weird, but host,
I like host, just because you're
saying everything in this custom
element is going to be used one of these,
but it doesn't matter.
That's the nature of CSS.
It just picks up where it where it does.
So it tries to figure it out.